<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 16 JAN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>16 JAN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250116T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>georgKrog, harshPandit, julianFlake, julioHernandez, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Scheduling Weekly Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV 2.1</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">Contracts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">EHDS</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-01-16">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-01-16</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Scheduling Weekly Meeting</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary> New weekly meeting time slot: THU 13:30 WET / 14:30 CET</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV 2.1</h3>
<p id=x016 class=summary> Discussed pending issues for v2.1 completion <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5.">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>5.</a> Ongoing work includes completing the HTML and preparing the release. We plan in the next meeting the publishing and review periods.</p>
<h4 id=t03>Contracts</h4>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Discussed contract status concepts offline with Julian and Georg, and we have agreed for modelling the status for indicating how the contract is created and executed. For this a state diagram showing what our assumptions were would be added, and the concepts about how the contract was drafted have been removed.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> the contract drafting status would apply for any document, and therefore we should think about creating <code>DocumentStatus</code> as a generic concept that would be useful beyond the contract cases. </p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> agree, it would be useful for organisations</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> yes, for ROPA and DPIA these type of statuses would be helpful</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then we will look into these for DPV v2.2; an important consideration is whether we add these to DPV or we create a management or governance or organisation extension that contains such concepts that are helpful for internal organisational management and governance concepts and processes which do not fit the scope of DPV</p>
<h4 id=t04>EHDS</h4>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We had discussed EHDS extension to support ongoing work such as the HealthDCAT-AP, and agreed that it should be in scope. Now we have a draft - should we formally indicate we are working on this?</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary> group agreed this work is in scope of the DPVCG and should be continued</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x027 class=summary> The next meeting will be on Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
