<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 23 JAN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>23 JAN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250123T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, julianFlake, julioHernandez, markLizar, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Alignment with ODRL</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">v2.1 release</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">Diagrams</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Funding &amp; Acknowledgements</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Feedback and Publishing</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Review documents</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">v2.2 plan</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-01-23">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-01-23</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Alignment with ODRL</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong> Alignment with ODRL (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> the ODRL work is progressing in the IMEC/Solid project. We have a working tool that can check ODRL policies, and have a paper in ESWC. Waiting for results. Next step would be to handle conflicts.</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> that's great, we have concepts in DPV about rule interpretation and rule triggers which would be good to sync with your work; share back whenever the work can be aligned between the two groups</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>v2.1 release</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198">Issue 198</a></strong> DPV v2.1 release management (by ghurlbot)</p>
<h4 id=t03>Diagrams</h4>
<p id=x020 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> updated various diagrams for new concepts to be included; the DPV overview diagram will be updated by Harsh. For TECH diagram there was some confusion about new properties to be added - but that is now done. the AI core diagram is also pending - didn't understand what new concepts are to be added.</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> thanks; I'll work on the overview diagram and the AI core diagram</p>
<h4 id=t04>Funding &amp; Acknowledgements</h4>
<p id=x023 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> For contributors, please check your funding acknowledgement (we have two kinds - one directly funding work on DPV, and one funding you for something else but allowed you to work on DPV) - if there are any additions or changes, email me directly with the text and I will include it in the documents</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> have updates to acknowledgements for the SolidLabs project </p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> is there any central collection of acknowledgements?</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> No, I manually add them in documents as otherwise they get outdated or may accidentally get used incorrectly in the wrong document/version.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> will have two projects to add to acknowledgements</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> discussed tangentially Julian's project which is relevant to the implementation of data spaces, and connected to Prometheus-X, which has developed consent management based on ISO 27560 <a href="https://prometheus-x-association.github.io/consent-manager/">https://<wbr>prometheus-x-association.github.io/<wbr>consent-manager/</a> - this is a relevant project also to Beatriz and Mark. Suggested to reach out to the project to promote use of DPV, and share our work on 27560. Also mentioned conversations with DSSC.</p>
<h4 id=t05>Feedback and Publishing</h4>
<p id=x030 class=summary> Agreed to provide a <em>release candidate</em> on Monday and have an open invitation for review and feedback while we also review the documents</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> The feedback period will be for 2 weeks, starting from JAN-27 to FEB-10. Then in the meeting on FEB-13, we can decide whether to continue with the publishing of a final version based on whether there are any major issues identified.</p>
<h4 id=t06>Review documents</h4>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> review justifications, DGA</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> review AI, EU-AIAct, RISK</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s03"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> review Legal Basis, EU-GDPR</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s05"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> review LOC, TECH</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> in addition to these, everybody should look at DPV main spec as well</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> What should be involved in the review? Are we reviewing the concepts or just the document?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Mostly just the document as the concepts would have been discussed - and would also count as an issue. Unless there are major issues with concepts, we can discuss changes and new concept for the next release. For typos, I will run a spellcheck. For the document, we want to read through the sections - ensure they make sense, the notes and examples are where they are needed, and nothing looks or seems broken.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>v2.2 plan</h3>
<p id=x041 class=summary> discussed preferences to work on specific items or to prioritise items for discussion in the next release; refer to <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a> - create an issue if an item is missing there that should be discussed</p>
<p id=x042 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/135">Issue 135</a></strong> Add biometric categories to Personal Data extension (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x043 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/222">Issue 222</a></strong> Update NIS2 extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/229">Issue 229</a></strong> Update EU-AIAct extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/201">Issue 201</a></strong> Support EU Health Data Spaces (EHDS) as an extension (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/234">Issue 234</a></strong> Update DGA extension with practical concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x048 class=summary> The next meeting will be on JAN-30 Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> Agenda will be discussion on v2.1 release candidate and its review, and discussing the above items for v2.2</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
