<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 10 SEP 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>10 SEP 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240910T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, harshPandit, iainHenderson, julianFlake, markLizar, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>julioHernandez</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Legal Basis</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Contract</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Other Legal Basis</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t04">Rules</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Risk Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Sector</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Fee</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Updates</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Annual Privacy Forum</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-09-10">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-09-10</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Noted AOB item from delaram</p>
<p id=x012 class="phone s01"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> what is the connection between data in DPV and dataset in DCAT?</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> they are similar concepts and you can use both of them together e.g. something is an instance of <code>dpv:Data</code> and <code>dcat:Dataset</code>, but not good to combine them in terms of relationships e.g. subclass relationship as differen <u>datasets</u> can contain same <u>data</u>, or <u>data</u> can contain multiple <u>datasets</u>.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Legal Basis</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<h4 id=t02>Contract</h4>
<p id=x017 class=summary> no comments or changes identified - accepted the concepts as discussed in previous minutes </p>
<h4 id=t03>Other Legal Basis</h4>
<p id=x019 class=summary> no comments or changes identified - accepted the concepts</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> For legal basis concepts, they are accepted in principle. </p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add legal basis concepts to DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Rules</h3>
<p id=x023 class=summary> concepts to model rule fulfilment as statuses, aligned with concepts from contract clause fulfilment</p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> <code>PermissionObligation</code> and <code>Obligation</code> in contract law are different, how to express that? For example, to express that you have permission to use a book, but if you read beyond certain pages then you have to pay?</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> that is an obligation within a permission, which can be done with DPV concepts - but we don't define the interpretation of nested rules. Also its better to look towards ODRL for this use-case as it has defined interpretations and also because it specifically models contracts.</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> agreed - okay to continue with Rules concepts</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add rules concepts to DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Risk Taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x029 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181">Issue 181</a></strong> Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x030 class=summary> recap: single hierarchy of concepts grouped based on different topics, adopter picks the concept and the role it plays in the use-case e.g. whether it is a consequence or an impact</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> this is an issue where some concepts do not make sense for a chosen role e.g. <u>violence against children</u> as a risk source doesn't make a lot of sense. Not necessarily a blocking problem, but something to think about.</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> Indeed, but don't know another solution that will allow flexibility while also providing clarity regarding roles. The previous model had us assert something is <u>always</u> a risk source or impact - which is not true. So in this case, we ask the adopter to choose the concept and the role.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> for specific AI related risks it is not possible to pick from this list, and we would have to have an extension or another way to distinguish these</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> this is something we discussed earlier, so yes, the consensus as I remember it as was to put the AI specific risks in the AI extension</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>paul:</cite> are you trying to make it more flexible?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, the goal is to keep things flexible</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>georg:</cite> can be explained in an example</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s06"><cite>mark:</cite> communicate risk and liability - who is responsible for the risk</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s07"><cite>delaram:</cite> this could be modelled with ODRL e.g. with the AI use profile which expresses the liability if something happens</p>
<p id=x040 class=summary> consensus - okay to move ahead with the risk taxonomy and to provide sufficient guidance and examples in the documentation to clarify how the concepts work. For AI specific risks, we have the AI extension.</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> of note, the Spanish DPA (AEPD) had a paper at APF where they created a threat taxonomy where they extended the LINDDUN privacy threats taxonomy with data protection relevant concepts Implications of Age Assurance on Privacy and Data Protection: A Systematic Threat Model <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68024-3_1">https://<wbr>doi.org/<wbr>10.1007/<wbr>978-3-031-68024-3_1</a></p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Continue with Risk taxonomy model, consolidate taxonomy, create risk concepts in AI extension</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Sector</h3>
<p id=x044 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/177">Issue 177</a></strong> [Concept]: Sectors should be defined in DPV (main spec)  (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> question is whether we should model <code>Sector</code> taxonomy in DPV or we suggest use of authoritative taxonomies such as NACE and NAICS</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>paul:</cite> official source is important</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s07"><cite>delaram:</cite> for the AI Act checked the sectors mentioned and they map quite well with NACE, wording is not the same but they are mostly covered so no need for duplicates</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>georg:</cite> there are different regulations such as emission of carbon, digital products where ID must be declared, which all require a standardised way to document the sector in which they are active in - so the one in DPV would need too much work and shouldn't be done</p>
<p id=x049 class=summary> agreed with consensus - not to model sector in DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Fee</h3>
<p id=x051 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/185">Issue 185</a></strong> [Concept]: Add Fee concept to DPV, remove it from RISK (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s08"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> real concepts required in GDPR where they are required, so they have sufficient granularity to do what we need to do</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> yes, agreed it is useful</p>
<p id=x054 class=summary> accepted with consensus</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add Fee concepts to DPV</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Updates</h3>
<p id=x057 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">Issue 183</a></strong> Represent activities where DPIA is required in EU-GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s09"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> for DPIA concepts in DPV, will have updates next week with the concepts and examples</p>
<p id=x059 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182">Issue 182</a></strong> Adding AI bias concepts (by DelaramGlp)</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s10"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> for the AI Bias concepts, Daniel sent an email with updates - will go through and have a proposed resolution next week.</p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186">Issue 186</a></strong> Create Mapping between GDPR and DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x062 class="phone s10"><cite>harshPandit:</cite> for the mapping of GDPR with DPV, Prinon informed that he is busy and will have updates possibly next week.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Annual Privacy Forum</h3>
<p id=x064 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> DPV work on consent won the best paper award at APF, and was visible/presented in front of DPAs <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Sep/0004.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Sep/<wbr>0004.html</a></p>
<p id=x065 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> notes from APF available on website <a href="https://harshp.com/research/blog/APF-2024">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>research/<wbr>blog/<wbr>APF-2024</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t10>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x067 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 17 September at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be updates on resolutions from today with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Add legal basis concepts to DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add rules concepts to DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Continue with Risk taxonomy model, consolidate taxonomy, create risk concepts in AI extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Add Fee concepts to DPV</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
