<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 09 JAN 2025</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>09 JAN 2025</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/cfb323ac-2f0a-4a78-96e5-09194bf1c9bf/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, harshPandit, iainHenderson, julianFlake, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Scheduling Weekly Meeting</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">DPV 2.1</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t03">Diagrams</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Contracts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">RISK</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">AI</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">AI Act</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">P7012</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t09">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-01-09">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2025-01-09</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Scheduling Weekly Meeting</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary> Poll circulated on mailing list with time slots for weekly meeting. Most suitable slots are Thursday 13:30-16:30 (all times are GMT) and Monday 13:30-14:30. However, as Mondays are typically when institutes schedule meetings and events. Thursday 13:30-14:30 does not work for Beatriz, and 14:30-16:30 is not preferred for Julian. To maximise regular participation, we'll select a time on Thursday after confirming with participants.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>DPV 2.1</h3>
<h4 id=t03>Diagrams</h4>
<p id=x017 class=summary> See <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>document/<wbr>d/<wbr>1poo7rYNBlkd4Ag0YHB_il2Xe2hwtHWfROgl5WgrNgyc/</a></p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> All the pending text content has been added, the only items pending are diagrams which need to be updated.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> can help, will need a list of diagrams</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> there is a list in the document, and each document also has an issue listed for the diagram</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> can review diagrams when finished</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Update diagrams - harsh and julian</p>
<h4 id=t04>Contracts</h4>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> In last meeting, we discussed the need for concepts to represent the states when a contract is being signed, and to distinguish between this entity signing the contract, and some but not all entities signing the contract, and all entities signing the contract.</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> What about maintaining records for when the contract is being signed?</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> This can be done separately for the use-case, like creating a record for the entity, or to put the record in the contract with a timestamp.</p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> Can we use <code>Process</code> here like we do for consent records?</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> No, because in consent we give consent or refuse it for the entire process, whereas in contract, it can be contain multiple processes and the contract is being signed as a whole or not. So we need concepts at the contract level.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s03"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> Okay, agree that we need those concepts to model the states, but not clear on how the model works.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> Are these states for a particular workflow? As in do they represent a state machine?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Yes, they can, but there are multiple workflows. For example, there may or may not be negotiation.</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> Should we replace the term <code>entity</code> with <code>party</code> as that is what is used for contracts?</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We used <code>entity</code> because that's what we have in DPV. </p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> Would still be better to have the same term that is used for contracts.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Discuss and resolve whether contract terms should have 'Party' - harsh, julianFlake, georgKrog</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> There is a typo in the term - <code>ContractedAcceptedAllParties</code> should be <code>ContractAcceptedAllParties</code>.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Fix typo in contract status <code>ContractAcceptedAllParties</code> - harsh</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> In the interest of time, let's continue this discussion via emails. If we have consensus - we add them to v2.1, otherwise we add them to v2.2 later.</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Resolve contract status - harsh, julianFlake, georgKrog</p>
<h4 id=t05>RISK</h4>
<p id=x041 class=summary> See <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.1-dev/risk/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.1-dev/<wbr>risk/</a></p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Had to make changes in the risk control concepts so that they are aligned and in a hierarchy - discovered this while trying to use them in an example. Created specific concepts to represent proactive and reactive controls which refer to whether the control is applied before the event or after its effects. In addition, we already have controls specific for source, consequence, and impact. Also created relevant properties for each.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> What is the relation between control here and measure?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Measure as in DPV is the legal notion of having something in place, whereas in risk management it has a different meaning. Control is what is used in ISO terms to have something that controls a particular thing. </p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> For the risk controls, it would be helpful to have a tree type diagram that shows how they are structured.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add a hierarchy diagram for RISK controls</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> There should be another source added - ISO 23894 for the risk management concepts for AI.</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add ISO 23894 as source in AI extension</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> In Fig.1 showing the overview of RISK extension, there should be relation showing <code>dpv:Impact</code> is a subclass of <code>dpv:Consequence</code> </p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add relation between Impact and Consequence in RISK Fig. 1</p>
<p id=a08 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add new concepts to RISK Fig. 1</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> For <u>Potential concepts</u> as in RISK, why are they needed? They can be confusing when using e.g. if there is an incident, then the impact is noted, and then the potential impact is noted.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> They are potential in the sense of potentially taking on roles within the use-case. In your example, the potential impact would be risks, so it shouldn't use the potential concept directly. Instead, think that the use-case wants to identify what potential impacts can occur - and then for an incident you can select from one of those. So this is possible with our potential concepts to create a taxonomy of concepts representing risks, impacts - and then they can be asserted in context to apply as risk or consequence or as incidents.</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> So do we need them as separate concepts? Why not directly use them e.g. <code>dpv:hasImpact</code>?</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> No, because that would make always be an impact - whereas each use-case should specify what its impacts are.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> What if we create a subclass of Impact?</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Would have the same effect - they would still always be instances of impact. </p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> In that case, a note explaining the concepts would be helpful as it currently is not entirely clear.</p>
<p id=a09 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add note/content to RISK explaining why Potential concepts are needed</p>
<p id=a10 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Update Example 5 Potential concepts in RISK</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> In addition to these, a spellcheck is needed as there are several typos.</p>
<p id=a11 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Use spellcheck to fix typos (in RISK, but also all docs)</p>
<p id=a12 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> RISK Risk Management pt.2b-iii fix formatting of risk level</p>
<h4 id=t06>AI</h4>
<p id=x065 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> The concepts in Fig.2 are confusing, would be better to directly state the actual existing relations</p>
<p id=a13 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Update AI Fig.2 use DPV relations</p>
<p id=a14 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> AI 7.1 Data Risks - check table of concepts</p>
<h4 id=t07>AI Act</h4>
<p id=x069 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Section 'Statuses' - should it be statuses or status?</p>
<p id=x070 class=summary> Agreed to keep it as Statuses</p>
<p id=a15 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> AI Act status definitions are <code>None</code></p>
<h4 id=t08>P7012</h4>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Created a document with Iain and Beatriz for listing concepts required for implementing P7012. Since this is draft, and P7012 is itself yet to be published, we can continue working on this while the other 2.1 stuff is being sorted. Will add a document and share it next week.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t09>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x075 class=summary> The next meeting will be on Thursday. Time TBC. Agenda will be finalisation of 2.1, and planning for 2.2.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Update diagrams - harsh and julian</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Discuss and resolve whether contract terms should have 'Party' - harsh, julianFlake, georgKrog</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Fix typo in contract status <code>ContractAcceptedAllParties</code> - harsh</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Resolve contract status - harsh, julianFlake, georgKrog</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Add a hierarchy diagram for RISK controls</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Add ISO 23894 as source in AI extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Add relation between Impact and Consequence in RISK Fig. 1</a></li>
<li><a href="#a08">Add new concepts to RISK Fig. 1</a></li>
<li><a href="#a09">Add note/content to RISK explaining why Potential concepts are needed</a></li>
<li><a href="#a10">Update Example 5 Potential concepts in RISK</a></li>
<li><a href="#a11">Use spellcheck to fix typos (in RISK, but also all docs)</a></li>
<li><a href="#a12">RISK Risk Management pt.2b-iii fix formatting of risk level</a></li>
<li><a href="#a13">Update AI Fig.2 use DPV relations</a></li>
<li><a href="#a14">AI 7.1 Data Risks - check table of concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a15">AI Act status definitions are <code>None</code></a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
