<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 24 SEP 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>24 SEP 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240924T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, harshPandit, julianFlake, julioHernandez, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Bias concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Discrimination concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Rights Impact concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Risk Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Alignment with ODRL</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Machine-Actionable Rights</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">DPIA concepts for DPV</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-09-24">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-09-24</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> AOB items</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>DPIA concepts by Tytti</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary>Machine-actionable rights work by Beatriz, Harsh</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Bias concepts</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182">Issue 182</a></strong> Adding AI bias concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Daniel has updated the bias concept definition based on ISO definitions, and these will be added to RISK extension. There are also other ontologies that provide a larger corpus of bias concepts and this work has overlap with them. The distinguishing factor here is that our concepts are based on the ISO definitions and are grouped from the ISO standard, and the other concepts are from NIST and other sources. So in the HTML documentation we will be adding a note to this effect.</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add bias concepts to RISK with a note to external source</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Discrimination concepts</h3>
<p id=x019 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190">Issue 190</a></strong> [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Initially we proposed/discussed that there will be a corresponding <em>discrimination</em> concept for each <em>bias</em> concept. However, this does not make sense as there are bias concepts such as <em>Statistical Bias</em> which would lead to <em>Statistical Discrimination</em>. Instead, we want a separate curated category for discriminations such as <em>gender, sex, race</em> and so on. </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Rights Impact concepts</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184">Issue 184</a></strong> Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> Discussed these concepts to model impacts. No comments <em> objections to proceeding with adding these concepts to the RISK extension, and then using these along with specific /Impact on X Right</em> concepts to indicate how a right was impacted.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add rights impact concepts to RISK</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create impact concept for each right in EU and GDPR extensions</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Risk Taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181">Issue 181</a></strong> Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> based on previous discussion, the risk taxonomy was consolidated into a single taxonomy and the adopter has the option to choose what <em>role</em> that concept takes within the use-case i.e. as a <code>RiskSource</code> or <code>Risk</code> or <code>Consequence</code> or <code>Impact</code>. The problem with this is that there is no <em>guidance</em> or <em>suggestion</em> as Delaram pointed out last time - which makes it difficult to use this taxonomy.</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> The proposal here is to tag each concept with what it could be used as i.e. as <em>Potential Risk Source</em> or <em>Potential Risk</em> and so on. With this, the adopter has a way to identify which concepts are likely to be risk sources, or see what roles a concept can take within use-cases. In the HTML documentation, this would then be a table for each concept and the roles it can take.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> clarify this is consistent with previous approach and that it is non-normative - more like a guide.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>paulRyan,:</cite> agree with going ahead</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s04"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> agree with going ahead</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s05"><cite>julioHernandez:</cite> agree with going ahead</p>
<p id=x034 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/138">Issue 138</a></strong> Add CIA model to Tech/Org measures (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> additionally, we also have the CIA infosec model to indicate whether the concept is within the <em>Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability</em> dimensions. And we also plan to do the same categorisatino for TOMs</p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Annotate Risk taxonomy concepts with roles and generate docs</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Alignment with ODRL</h3>
<p id=x038 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong> Alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> no comms from ODRL CG regarding joint meeting at W3C TPAC. Once I finish that work re. ODRL update we can have a meeting within DPV first and then we share it with ODRL. I will present something here in DPVCG, and then present it to ODRL CG.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Does that mean we define DPV as a profile of ODRL? How do we do that?</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> talked with Renato - chair of ODRL CG, who mentioned it is possible to do this as a joint report by both CG. Though this would require a new namespace.</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> AFAIK the W3C publishing process is tied to the WG/CG and there isn't a way to indicate a report was authored by more than one group. It might mean we have to publish two reports - one by each group, and then within the group indicate that its a joint report.</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for the new IRI for concepts / namespace following ODRL best practices, we can reuse the DPV namespace e.g. <code>w3id.org/dpv/odrl</code></p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> So to implement such a profile, we would have to define the DPV concepts as operands, constraints, assets, etc. However, there is a problem where we have <code>odrl:Agreement</code> and other types - which in DPV are legal basis e.g. <code>Contract</code> and which would then be both operands and policy types in ODRL. I think this is disallowed?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> yes, this means we will have to create new concepts.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then these concepts would be distinct from those present in DPV and will only be present in the profile - not a problem</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have a project where Julio is also working on using DPV and ODRL together. We can start a process to create such as profile. Would be good for you two to meet and discuss this.</p>
<p id=a05 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Create a mapping between DPV and ODRL concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Machine-Actionable Rights</h3>
<p id=x050 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191">Issue 191</a></strong> Create a guide for Machine-Actionable Rights (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> submitted a paper to JURIX based on my PhD work for using DPV and ODRL to exercise and manage rights; see <a href="https://besteves4.github.io/dpv-rights-exercising/">https://<wbr>besteves4.github.io/<wbr>dpv-rights-exercising/</a></p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> would be good to put this back into the DPVCG as a guide or spec for managing/exercising rights - the (pure) ODRL stuff might be better documented in the ODRL CG rather than in a DPV report</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> yes, also the document contains some new examples </p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> these are good, though we should change the <code>hasScope</code> in example to <code>hasProcess</code> as the notion of <em>Scope</em> here is about the legal interpretation rather than technically limiting something - we have <code>Process</code> to create modular parts within a process or service. </p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s06"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> in the guide, it also shows how to associate policy using <code>odrl:hasPolicy</code> e.g. payment and how much it is, and it has lifecycle concepts for rights exercise. It uses DCAT v3 <code>DatasetSeries</code> to show which came first, last, etc.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> send as draft which we add to DPVCG, then we continue working on this within DPVCG</p>
<p id=a06 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Add the rights exercise guide/spec to DPVCG repo</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>DPIA concepts for DPV</h3>
<p id=x059 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">Issue 183</a></strong> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183 (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s04"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> new concepts identified from analysis of DPIA requirements by Data Protection Authorities - have the term, parent, definition, and source. When proposing the new concepts, should I include the text from DPA document where the concepts came from?</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s07"><cite>beatriz:</cite> would be helpful to see the source</p>
<p id=a07 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> Provide DPIA concepts to DPVCG for review</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x064 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 02 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">Add bias concepts to RISK with a note to external source</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">Add rights impact concepts to RISK</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">Create impact concept for each right in EU and GDPR extensions</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">Annotate Risk taxonomy concepts with roles and generate docs</a></li>
<li><a href="#a05">Create a mapping between DPV and ODRL concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a06">Add the rights exercise guide/spec to DPVCG repo</a></li>
<li><a href="#a07">Provide DPIA concepts to DPVCG for review</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
