<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 29 OCT 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>29 OCT 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241029T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Discrimination concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Rights Impact concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Guide for Machine Actionable Rights</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">DPIA concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Integrating AIRO/VAIR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x008 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-29">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-10-29</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Discrimination concepts</h3>
<p id=x011 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190">Issue 190</a></strong> [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x012 class=summary> accept concepts </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Rights Impact concepts</h3>
<p id=x014 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184">Issue 184</a></strong> Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Question continued from last discussion: do we include requirements?</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1 merit in doing this work as it also helps meeting rights requests</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> +1 agree with paul, it makes sense to model the whole process</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> its an area where we are weak in, we have worked a lot of DPIA and other processes, but never delved into what the processes actually are</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s04"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> +1 might be helpful for fundamental rights impact assessment under the AI Act</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s06"><cite>catarinaSilva:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> conclusion: group agreed that we should include requirements for rights and other processes in general. This requires further discussions and exploration of concepts / methodology, so we will do this for DPV 2.2.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Guide for Machine Actionable Rights</h3>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191">Issue 191</a></strong> Create a guide for Machine-Actionable Rights (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> submitted what I had for materials to DPV dev branch on github. Next steps is to create a sequence diagram for what is involved in exercising a right - what we discussed last time with Georg. It would be good for people to go over it and start a discussion on it.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>DPIA concepts</h3>
<p id=x027 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">Issue 183</a></strong> Represent activities where DPIA is required in EU-GDPR (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s04"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> concepts are done - to be reviewed by harsh; will submit on Github for people to review and discuss; there are some issues that require inputs from people</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> then we put it on the agenda for next week (tytti: yes)</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> there are two steps in DPIA where the first one is whether a DPIA is needed e.g. EDPB guidelines on what needs a DPIA</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s04"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> yes, I have factored in all EDPB and EU/EEA DPA guidelines</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Integrating AIRO/VAIR</h3>
<p id=x033 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">Issue 143</a></strong> Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> mapping of AIRO to VAIR - wording is different e.g. risk mitigation and risk control</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> we also need to check/map risk controls in DPV</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have measure to follow the legal meaning of mitigation measure and risk ontology/extension has the generic term control used in risk management</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> there is a concept called detectsRiskConcept as it refers to detecting events which in DPV are modelled as risk concepts (so they can take up multiple roles)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> lets call it to detectsEvent?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> not great due to temporal connotation of 'event'</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> lets go with what you have for the moment</p>
<p id=x041 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> for domains - the criticial infrastructures have been modelled as concepts</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> if we don't have domain then for some purposes e.g. determining high risk and prohibited AI or technical documentation - DPV won't be sufficient on its own</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we use it with NACE?</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> does it have a formal representation?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, in RDF! <a href="https://data.europa.eu/data/datasets/nace2-1?locale=en">https://<wbr>data.europa.eu/<wbr>data/<wbr>datasets/<wbr>nace2-1?locale=en</a></p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> specific parts of AIRO/VAIR will be going in to specific extensions</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> area of impact - how to model this? As sector? Is it different?</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s05"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> ai subject - how do we model this? It is not the same as data subject.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> how do we reuse data subject taxonomy as we already have a nice list there?</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> option, we define human subject and move concepts there - but that will break existing uses of data and we should ensure minimising any breaking changes. Will need to think about this.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s07"><cite>14:</cite> 55:35 &lt;harsh&gt; delaramGolpayegani: human involvement concepts are present - but not explicitly for humans only</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> these are generalised as entity involvement, but we don't have </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x054 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 05 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
