<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 AUG 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 AUG 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240813T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, iainHenderson, jesseWright, julioHernandez, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, georgKrog, julianFlake</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">FYI</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">Fixes to LOC</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Example copy button</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">W3C Community Survey</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t05">Legal Bases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Notice 29184</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t07">Scope</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Categories</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">Controls</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">Metadata and Contents</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t11">RISK</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-08-13">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-08-13</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>FYI</h3>
<h4 id=t02>Fixes to LOC</h4>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/179">Issue 179</a></strong> [Concept]: Add ISO 3166-2 subdivision codes (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> there were issues with duplicates where a region had more than one label, because I did not get this data from the paid ISO resource but instead used Wikidata. There were about 20-30 duplicate labels and rows which have been manually removed.</p>
<h4 id=t03>Example copy button</h4>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/180">Issue 180</a></strong> Add copy button to examples (by besteves4)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> beatriz requested a copy button for the examples so that it is easy to copy the RDF portion. I have added a copy button to the top right corner for this. See demo <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.1-dev/examples/#E0006">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.1-dev/<wbr>examples/#E0006</a></p>
<h4 id=t04>W3C Community Survey</h4>
<p id=x019 class=summary> The W3C has circulated a survey for community group participants to undertake to help them run and manage the groups. Since we are using the infrastructure and resources, we should help by participating the survey. See <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Aug/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Aug/<wbr>0003.html</a> The deadline for this is September 13.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Legal Bases</h3>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x022 class=summary> not discussed as no legal experts on call; recommended to review the proposed concepts as these are essential - see <a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240813T133000/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>events/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/<wbr>20240813T133000/</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Notice 29184</h3>
<p id=x024 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/91">Issue 91</a></strong> Provide guidance for implementing ISO/IEC 29184 Privacy Notice using DPV (by coolharsh55)</p>
<h4 id=t07>Scope</h4>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Should we limit the scope of this guide and work to consent notices or consider any and all privacy notices e.g. for other legal bases as well? Upon discussing this with Georg, he suggested we limit it to consent notices and I agree as this is what ISO 29184 also has as scope.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> agreed to limit scope to consent notices</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Do we only keep consent information in the notice or do we also consider adding in other information such as legitimate interest objections, rights exercise information, and so on?</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> one stop is better customer experience even if it isn't the optimal legal experience, so it would be better to have a notice provide all of these from an operational perspective</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> agree with paul on this</p>
<p id=x031 class=summary> discussed and agreed that the primary purpose of the notice would be for consent, and the other information would be present for convenience</p>
<h4 id=t08>Categories</h4>
<p id=x033 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> ISO 29184 and also DPA and EDPB guidance recommend providing notices in layers as appropriate to the context. ISO 29184 also uses other categories such as just in time notice, dashboard notice, and graphic notice. Should we provide such categories?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> yes, these would be useful</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> there is a guidance on layered notices that we should adapt, and there is existing use of such layered notices</p>
<p id=x036 class=summary> discussed and agreed to provide such notice categories with a limit to how they are being defined. Paul gave an example of jurisdictional notices which are limited to a specific jurisdiction. To avoid creating ad-hoc large number of notice categories, these categories are referring only to the way the notice is constructed and presented. For other categorisation, the existing properties and information in the notice should be used.</p>
<h4 id=t09>Controls</h4>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For consent, we have consent controls for provide and withdraw consent. In a notice such as this, there can also be other controls for opt-in/opt-out or object type of actions. How do we model this? We have a list of <code>EntityInvolvement</code> concepts which include opt-in and opt-out, and we have modelled the consent controls as an extension of this. Are these sufficient?</p>
<p id=x039 class=summary> discussed and the current consensus is that this list is comprehensive enough</p>
<h4 id=t10>Metadata and Contents</h4>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For describing the metadata about the notice, such as date/time, title, etc. we use Dublin Core Terms. For describing the recipient of the notice we can use <code>dpv:hasRecipient</code>, but since the recipient in this case would be a data subject, we should use <code>dpv:hasDataSubject</code> e.g. with a category to state who the intended audience is - such as Customers. To indicate actual provision of the notice, other vocabularies such as schema.org's recipient property or PROV can also be used to 'record' when and where a notice was provided to a specific individual.</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For location, notices can be provided on a webpage. Would using <code>dpv:hasLocation</code> with a URL for this situation make sense? (yes it makes sense)</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For describing when the notice is being provided i.e. at what point in the processing activity, we have <code>dpv:isBefore</code> and <code>dpv:isAfter</code> which can be combined with a concept to indicate e.g. <code>dpv:Collect</code> notice is being provided before or after data collection. To indicate the notice is used <u>during</u> data collection or another activity, we should add the concept <code>dpv:isDuring</code>. This will cover ex-ante (before), ex-post (after), and real-time (during).</p>
<p id=x044 class=summary> discussed and agreed to above</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t11>RISK</h3>
<p id=x046 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181">Issue 181</a></strong> Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> harsh: Currently, we have distinction between concepts that are consequence and impacts, which is confusing when an use-case does not use them in that way. E.g. damage is an impact according to DPV, but in an use-case, it might be a risk and the impact would be something that comes out of this for someone. So to allow this kind of flexibility, the proposal is that we move everything under Risk (as we have done in 2.0 release) and then make consequence and impact a subclass of risk. The adopter then chooses the concept under risk and uses it either as risk or as consequence or impact for their use-case. This way we will have a single taxonomy of concepts under risk which will be easier to manage and use.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> we already have this in the current 2.0 release where concepts are defined as risks rather than as consequence or impact</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, we did that to avoid incompatible changes in the future as consequence and impact were not subclasses of risk in 2.0</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> propose we call the top concept <code>RiskEvent</code> and move all events or concepts under it so that it is distinct from risk.</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> so we would then have risk, consequence, impact, and risk source as subclasses of this?</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> yes, and then the adopter chooses what role the term plays</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> should we have a property <code>risk:hasRiskEvent</code>? I don't think so because it doesn't make sense as there is no definition of risk events, and the association should be either risk or consequence or impact or risk source</p>
<p id=x054 class="phone s04"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> there may be a need, e.g. during an AI audit you can associate risk events and then see whether they are a risk or consequence?</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, that would be confusing - better to do the collection or association using some other way and use DPV to express or assert the roles</p>
<p id=x056 class=summary> agreed to use RiskEvent and put taxonomy under that, and create the subclasses as described above</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t12>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x058 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 20 August at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be continuation of today's topics with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
