<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 19 NOV 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>19 NOV 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241119T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, harshPandit, iainHenderson, julianFlake, mayraRusso, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">P7012</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Integrating AIRO/VAIR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">v2.1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-11-19">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-11-19</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>P7012</h3>
<p id=x013 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/203">Issue 203</a></strong> Create extension to support IEEE P7012 (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [standards]</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> discussion on how and where to support P7012</p>
<p id=x015 class="phone s01"><cite>iainHenderson:</cite> we need to add more data types that can go in the extension and if it makes sense then in the core / pd extensions</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> proposed path <code>/dpv/standards/p7012</code> in github repo, then we can reuse this namespace for other standards e.g. conformance concepts for ISO standards</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> what about harmonised standards?</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> I think we can put this in the EU extension to say standard X is a harmonised standard</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary> agreed to go ahead with P7012 extension</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> create p7012 extension</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Integrating AIRO/VAIR</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">Issue 143</a></strong> Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI] [eu-aiact]</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> We continued reviewing the concepts proposed to be integrated from AIRO/VAIR using this spreadsheet - <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>v2.1 release</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198">Issue 198</a></strong> DPV v2.1 release management</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> see list of tasks pending for v2.1 <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Nov/0003.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Nov/<wbr>0003.html</a></p>
<p id=x027 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> issues/tasks under v2.1 on github <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>5</a></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s02"><cite>harsh:</cite> the rest are marked for v2.2 on github <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x030 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 26 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB. This meeting we also continue discussion and resolutions for publishing DPV 2.1 release.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">create p7012 extension</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
