<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 15 OCT 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>15 OCT 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241015T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, harshPandit, julianFlake, julioHernandez, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Discrimination concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Rights Impact concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Legal Bases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Updates / Mentions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-15">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-10-15</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Discrimination concepts</h3>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190">Issue 190</a></strong> [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We can use the existing discrimination law to get the concepts e.g. take from law e.g. Ireland has 8 concepts we can use <a href="https://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/employment/equality-in-work/equality-in-the-workplace/">https://<wbr>www.citizensinformation.ie/<wbr>en/<wbr>employment/<wbr>equality-in-work/<wbr>equality-in-the-workplace/</a></p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> we should also map it to ECHR <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Convention_on_Human_Rights">https://<wbr>en.wikipedia.org/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>European_Convention_on_Human_Rights</a> </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Rights Impact concepts</h3>
<p id=x016 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184">Issue 184</a></strong> Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see if our impact categories e.g. delayed, denied make sense for each right e.g. non-discrimination and delayed doesn't make much sense ; so we provide some help to identify impacts on rights ; timeline is Nov end as the next release is planned for Dec</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> will need to read up on this to understand rights impacts</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> okay, so we can start with one concept representing impact to entire right / article and then have a hierarchy under it to model more specific impacts</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s02"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> looking at case law, e.g. the word used there is deterrent </p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> impact concepts in GDPR</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s03"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> for specific rights, also put in rights guide</p>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> in the previous call, the deadline mentioned as November end was based on DPV 2.1 being planned for a December release. Since we have a 6 month release cycle planned, it would be good to have some rights impacts concepts as the FRIA under AI Act is trending.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Legal Bases</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Georg asked about power of attorney, but this is not considered in GDPR legal bases or other legal bases for consent. For contract, etc. this is also not a legal basis on its own - or I don't think we should get in to that level of detail just yet.</p>
<p id=x027 class=summary> group discussed validity under GDPR for consent</p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> concluding this, we need to make sure that DPV is capable for expressing consent given by parent - recording the relation / role</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> ensure DPV can express role of parent/guardian for consent by delegation</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Updates / Mentions</h3>
<p id=x031 class=summary> the following were discussed regarding updates</p>
<p id=x032 class=summary> Proposed DPIA concepts in GDPR by Tytti <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">w3c/<wbr>dpv#183</a></p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> Linking DPV concepts to GDPR (proposed by Prinon Das): <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186">w3c/<wbr>dpv#186</a></p>
<p id=x034 class=summary> Guide for Machine-Actionable Rights <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191">w3c/<wbr>dpv#191</a></p>
<p id=x035 class=summary> Alignment with ODRL <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">w3c/<wbr>dpv#130</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x037 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 22 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">ensure DPV can express role of parent/guardian for consent by delegation</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
