<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 08 OCT 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>08 OCT 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241008T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva, georgKrog, jesseWright, julianFlake, julioHernandez, markLizar, paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>harshPandit</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>beatriz, beatrizEsteves</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Discrimination concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Rights Impact concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Risk Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Bias concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Legal Bases</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Alignment with ODRL</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-08">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-10-08</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Discrimination concepts</h3>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190">Issue 190</a></strong> [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x013 class=summary> No comments</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Rights Impact concepts</h3>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184">Issue 184</a></strong> Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> different types of rights might imply different concepts, but the currently defined ones are generic enough to be useful in different scenarios</p>
<p id=x017 class="phone s02"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> useful for impact assessments</p>
<p id=x018 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> should we have jurisdiction specific concepts, e.g., <code>eu-gdpr:RightUnfulfilled</code>?</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> who would like to participate to create specific impact concepts from EU fundamental rights and GDPR rights? Timeline is November end.</p>
<p id=x020 class=summary> No comments. What is this deadline?</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Risk Taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x022 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181">Issue 181</a></strong> Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x023 class=summary> no comments</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Bias concepts</h3>
<p id=x025 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182">Issue 182</a></strong> Adding AI bias concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x026 class=summary> no comments</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Legal Bases</h3>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111">Issue 111</a></strong> Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> Georg: power of attorney is missing; how to delegate control to someone else to consent/enter into a contract/complain, etc.</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Any updates on the followig?</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Proposed DPIA concepts in GDPR by Tytti <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183">w3c/<wbr>dpv#183</a></p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>tyttiRintamaki:</cite> Under review by Harsh, will be shared next week.</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Linking DPV concepts to GDPR (proposed by Prinon Das): <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186">w3c/<wbr>dpv#186</a></p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> how to tie concepts with their legal provision, e.g., use a certain justification in the context of GDPR Article X</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> how are we starting? from DPV to GDPR or GDPR to DPV?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> instead of doing complete mapping focus on use cases, e.g., ROPAs, notices, rights</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> Guide for Machine-Actionable Rights <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191">w3c/<wbr>dpv#191</a> (Beatriz)</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> would be nice to have tools to go from machine-readable to human-readable to assist data controllers</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> beatriz to move contents in <a href="https://besteves4.github.io/dpv-rights-exercising/">https://<wbr>besteves4.github.io/<wbr>dpv-rights-exercising/</a> to DPV’s GH repo.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Alignment with ODRL</h3>
<p id=x041 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130">Issue 130</a></strong> Alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x042 class="phone s03"><cite>beatriz:</cite> no time to discuss the topic in this month’s ODRL meeting. Already on the agenda for the next meeting at the beginning of November.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> beatriz to start the ODRL mapping document.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x045 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 15 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">beatriz to move contents in https://<wbr>besteves4.github.io/<wbr>dpv-rights-exercising/ to DPV’s GH repo.</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">beatriz to start the ODRL mapping document.</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
