<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 01 OCT 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>01 OCT 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241001T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, markLizar, tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, georgKrog, julioHernandez</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Risk Taxonomy</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Bias concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Rights Impact concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Integrating AIRO/VAIR</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-01">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-10-01</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Risk Taxonomy</h3>
<p id=x012 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181">Issue 181</a></strong> Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x013 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> (showing the new risk concepts structure)</p>
<p id=x014 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the concept <code>dpv:RiskConcept</code> is in the DPV as it is the parent of risk concepts in DPV e.g. <code>Risk</code></p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> For Risk roles, change to Risk Concepts or &quot;Can act as&quot; in Table</p>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> next steps are integrating concepts from VAIR, and having separate sections for bias, discrimination, rights impacts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Bias concepts</h3>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182">Issue 182</a></strong> Adding AI bias concepts (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Moving ahead with these, for <code>ai:DataBias</code> the parent would be <code>risk:DataBias</code> so that we have both generic and AI specific concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Rights Impact concepts</h3>
<p id=x021 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184">Issue 184</a></strong> Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Rights Impact concepts added to GDPR, EU Rights, long-term provide supporting links between impacts and rights in EU extension</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Integrating AIRO/VAIR</h3>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> some concepts don't have a direct link e.g. EU Office and operators ; potentially have it for discussion by 22nd</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we can also explore whether we can add the high-risk categorisations from your PhD in AI Act extension. Whether to provide these with an implementation in SHACL, N3 for rules - to be discussed, for the moment only suggest adding the 'shape' or process</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x027 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 01 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">For Risk roles, change to Risk Concepts or &quot;Can act as&quot; in Table</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
