<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 06 AUG 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>06 AUG 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240806T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, harshPandit, julioHernandez, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>georgKrog</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>-</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh, harshPandit</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">DPV 2.0 released</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Consent Guide finalisation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">Legal Extensions for EU/EEA Members</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">ISO 3166-2 subdivisions</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">Legal Basis</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Sector</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">Notice 29184</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Next Meeting</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x009 class=summary>Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-08-06">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-08-06</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>DPV 2.0 released</h3>
<p id=x012 class=summary> <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Aug/0000.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2024Aug/<wbr>0000.html</a></p>
<p id=x013 class=summary> DPV 2.0 is released - congratulations to everyone ðŸŽ‰</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary> <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/releases/tag/dpv-2.0">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>releases/<wbr>tag/<wbr>dpv-2.0</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Consent Guide finalisation</h3>
<p id=x016 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We have a 'draft' message on the consent 27560 guide - <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/guides/consent-27560">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>guides/<wbr>consent-27560</a> - can this be removed? Are there any pending reviews or changes to this?</p>
<p id=x017 class=summary> no changes, okay to remove the message, and publish this through the w3c process</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>Legal Extensions for EU/EEA Members</h3>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> added legal extensions i.e. under <code>/legal</code> for all EU/EEA member states - except IE and DE which we already had</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for now, only the DPAs have been added for each member state, though it is quite trivial to add in the laws as well as it is only an entry in the spreadsheet. Would be good for new members to contribute here.</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.1-dev/legal/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.1-dev/<wbr>legal/</a> for summary</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>ISO 3166-2 subdivisions</h3>
<p id=x023 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> added subdivisions (cities, regions) from ISO 3166-2 standard. The source for this information is Wikidata. There was no other suitable resource, as there were subtle errors or discrepencies in most sources. </p>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> see <a href="https://dev.dpvcg.org/2.1-dev/loc/">https://<wbr>dev.dpvcg.org/<wbr>2.1-dev/<wbr>loc/</a> for list of all subdivisions</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> As the number of subdivisions is approx. 5000 entries, the entire page became quite big in size (10-20 MB) and there was a noticeable delay in opening the page. To avoid usability being reduced, I have removed the table definitions and instead put in simple paragraphs containing the concepts e.g.  loc:IE-D - County Dublin (rdfs:Class, skos:Concept, dpv:Region) </p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t05>Legal Basis</h3>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I discussed contract vocabulary with members from smashHit project which had a contract vocabulary, see the terms adapted for DPV by them here: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gLTE70Z60nJ4y8fLnbCJc_fWPzD9lKuTU5AVtU23XHc/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1gLTE70Z60nJ4y8fLnbCJc_fWPzD9lKuTU5AVtU23XHc/</a></p>
<p id=x028 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> However, I am not satisfied with the outcome as there are several terms which do not align with DPV and have no relevant definition or enumeration that we can use</p>
<p id=x029 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> So based on this, a proposed contract vocabulary is <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13Ub4LXHruocffYnd7JKCMvzi1MYv3Gy61d3UmQBhARc/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>13Ub4LXHruocffYnd7JKCMvzi1MYv3Gy61d3UmQBhARc/</a> where we already have data subject, controller, and processor contract as concepts</p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> new proposed concepts are <code>StandardFormContract</code> for when contract is not negotiated, and <code>NegotiatedContract</code> for when it is negotiated. There is SLA and EULA as commonly used terms, and there are concepts to represent B2B and B2C contracts. Other specific terms that come up are employment contract, distribution license, and license agreement. These are not necessarily legal basis for personal data, so we should think how to provide them. We already have <code>dpv:Licence</code> as contract term or legal agreement under legal measure.</p>
<p id=x031 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for B2B2C - I don't know whether this is a combination of B2B and B2C i.e. we don't need to model it</p>
<p id=x032 class="phone s02"><cite>beatrizEsteves:</cite> for B2B and B2C, we should also add B2B2C as it is used by Athumi here in Flanders</p>
<p id=x033 class=summary> added B2B2C with a note to check its parent concepts later</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> To model the status of contract, added statuses to keep track of when it is drafted, offered, negotiated, refused, ended or terminated or invalidated</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> added metadata for contract using DCT e.g. title, created, and so on. For duration we should use <code>dpv:hasDuration</code>. For indicating parts of a contract, use <code>dct:hasPart</code></p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> to model clauses, <code>dpv:ContractualClause</code> is proposed. Different parts exist such as terms and conditions, preamble, and so on. </p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> To keep track of contract fulfilment - added concepts for fulfilled, breached, and unfulfilled (i.e. not fulfilled and not breached). For contractual clause, added similar clauses for fulfilment etc.</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For other legal basis, fewer concepts are required. For legal obligation and official authority of controller, a relevant law is associated using <code>dpv:hasApplicableLaw</code>. For legitimate interest, vital interest, and public interest a purpose is needed using <code>dpv:hasPurpose</code>. The necessity of legal obligation, official authority, vital interest is assumed to be required, and for the others it is assumed to be optional unless otherwise noted.</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for Legitimate interest, the statuses are associated with whether the legal basis was declared to the data subject or not, and only after that whether it was objected to or not.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For legitimate interest objection - we already have opt-out and opt-in somewhere as concepts - so we need to think carefully how to fit all this together - personal preference is that we do it for each legal basis so it doesn't get conflated with consent as opt-in</p>
<p id=x041 class=summary> to be discussed later with Georg present for legal clarity</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t06>Sector</h3>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> we have sectors in extensions like AI Act, but the list is incomplete. So proposal is that we define only the necessary ones we need  in main DPV spec so we can structure or group our concepts e.g. law enforcement purposes under law enforcement sector; for regulation specific sectors there are authoritative lists like NACE.</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s03"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> would this include other sectors as well that occur in the act as there can be any number of sectors?</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> no, the idea is that we only define those that we need in DPV i.e. we have purposes or other concepts specific to that sector so we can use the concept to group things together</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s04"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> like the idea of using something authoritative like NACE</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Notice 29184</h3>
<p id=x048 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> working on machine-readable notices <a href="https://harshp.com/dpv-x/guides/notice-29184">https://<wbr>harshp.com/<wbr>dpv-x/<wbr>guides/<wbr>notice-29184</a> - contact if interested</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x050 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 13 August at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be continuation of today's topics with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.</p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
