<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 12 NOV 2024</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>12 NOV 2024</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241112T133000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2024/11/12-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva, delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, harsh, julianFlake, paulRyan</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>tyttiRintamaki</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Integrating AIRO/VAIR</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t02">AIRO</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">VAIR domains</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">VAIR AI</a></li>
<li><a href="#t05">VAIR component</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">VAIR capability</a></li>
<li><a href="#t07">VAIR technique</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">VAIR provision</a></li>
<li><a href="#t09">VAIR risk</a></li>
<li><a href="#t10">VAIR stakeholders</a></li>
<li><a href="#t11">VAIR outputs</a></li>
<li><a href="#t12">VAIR involvement</a></li>
<li><a href="#t13">VAIR lifecycle</a></li>
<li><a href="#t14">VAIR documentation</a></li>
<li><a href="#t15">VAIR purpose</a></li>
<li><a href="#t16">Bias work</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t17">v2.1 release</a></li>
<li><a href="#t18">Next Meeting</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#IssueSummary">Summary of issues</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x011 class=summary> Meeting minutes: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x012 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-11-12">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2024-11-12</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Integrating AIRO/VAIR</h3>
<p id=x014 class=summary>see issue <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">#143</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143">Issue 143</a></strong> Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI] [eu-aiact]</p>
<p id=x016 class=summary> We reviewed the concepts proposed to be integrated from AIRO/VAIR using this spreadsheet - <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/">https://<wbr>docs.google.com/<wbr>spreadsheets/<wbr>d/<wbr>1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/</a></p>
<h4 id=t02>AIRO</h4>
<p id=x018 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> have added notes under the column <u>ed-note</u> - most concepts are okay to integrate. So we will discuss the differences / open issues.</p>
<p id=x019 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> for <code>airo:AILifecyclePhase</code> I think we should use <u>Stage</u> rather than <u>Phase</u> as that is the term used in the ISO 22989 document. I tried to understand the difference between phase and stage, and apparently it is that phase is fuzzy it can go across different activities whereas stage is expected to be more discrete and things move from one stage to another.</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> <code>airo:Change</code> refers to AI Act requiring assessment of change. Delaram to review the concept resolution comment.</p>
<p id=x021 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For risk controls, have added properties as discussed before e.g. <code>risk:mitigates</code> and the concept <code>risk:MitigationControl</code> as its domain and <code>dpv:RiskConcept</code> as its range.</p>
<p id=x022 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For data, suggest we add <code>tech:hasInputData</code> and <code>tech:hasOutputData</code> along with classes for input/output data to enable expressing use of data in a technical manner while the main DPV continues modelling the legal context.</p>
<h4 id=t03>VAIR domains</h4>
<p id=x024 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> These domains would be useful in other places as well. So perhaps we should add a note stating we may move this concept elsewhere?</p>
<p id=x025 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> yes, that is okay - we are providing these concepts as they are needed for AI Act e.g. to model the high-risk categorisations.</p>
<h4 id=t04>VAIR AI</h4>
<p id=x027 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Concepts are mostly resolved. My only reservation is regarding <code>ai/tech:MultiAgentSystem</code> which I don't think we should model right now because the term <u>Agent</u> is also used in the legal domain and in AI domain its use is quickly evolving to a controversial stage because it also refers to independence. So we can look to model this carefully in v2.2.</p>
<p id=x028 class=summary> group agreed to this resolution</p>
<h4 id=t05>VAIR component</h4>
<p id=x030 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Concepts are mostly okay, except for the use of <code>tech:Component</code> which in TECH is a role or a provision method rather than actually stating it is a component or a part. So we model those as <code>dpv:Technology</code> instead. The other change is <code>tech:Platform</code> which is also a relevant concept for DSA/DMA so we can reuse it there.</p>
<h4 id=t06>VAIR capability</h4>
<p id=x032 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Have added top concepts here to try to create a hierarchy. The only two concepts that need discussion are <code>ai:SensitiveAttributeInference</code> and <code>ai:Profiling</code>. For <code>ai:SensitiveAttributeInference</code> - there is no source in 22989. Do you rememner where this was obtained from?</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> probably from an earlier version of the AI Act - the parliament version.</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Okay, IMO this is too specific and we shouldn't model this if isn't strictly needed in the context of AI capabilities. We can model it using DPV infer as processing and sensitive data.</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> Profiling in AI Act is dependant on the GDPR definition of profiling.</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Okay, so in DPV we have just a generic definition of profiling. So the only difference here should be the use of AI to do profiling. Hence the simple defintion. We should model profiling as defined in GDPR in the EU-GDPR extension.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s03"><cite>paulRyan:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> +1</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> okay, so we add the definition in AI extension, but not the AI Act extension. If it is needed, we can extend it as a concept in the AI Act extension.</p>
<h4 id=t07>VAIR technique</h4>
<p id=x041 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> all concepts are fairly technical and don't need any changes as such.</p>
<h4 id=t08>VAIR provision</h4>
<p id=x043 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> These concepts existing in TECH, so nothing to be added here. Though in TECH, we model Software as a type of technology rather than a provision method as software can be provided as a product, service, etc. Safety component is defined in AI Act, so perhaps it is not needed as a subtype of component in TECH.</p>
<h4 id=t09>VAIR risk</h4>
<p id=x045 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> am yet to review these</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> not sure how to model these as specific risk concepts</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I just create a column called <u>Role</u> and then enter <code>S,R,C,I</code> to indicate which category of risk concept it is, and then the table is generated automatically. I can review these concepts to see how to do that here.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> the CEN/CENELEC work on standards is currently having issues with the definition of risk in ISO 31000 series as it is incompatible with the requirements of the Act</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> the definition in the AI Act is that risk is a combination of likelihood and severity for a harm. The one in ISO is generic.</p>
<p id=x050 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> What does this mean for DPV? We have defined risk also as a negative event but haven't included likelihood and severity in the definition. I think its mostly compatible?</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> I think so.</p>
<p id=x052 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Let's check with Dave. He would have more context about the risk definition being discussed.</p>
<h4 id=t10>VAIR stakeholders</h4>
<p id=x054 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Propose we model the organisation types in DPV as they will be useful also elsewhere - have created a structure for this in the spreadsheet.</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> The AI Act has a definition for law enforcement authority</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Wouldn't these concepts be commonly well known? Or is the AI Act redefining what they mean? I don't think so. But if they are needed in the AI Act, then we can extend them to state the entity as defined in the Act.</p>
<p id=x057 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> There is also the question of how to model <u>Agent</u> as in agent acting on behalf of the entity.</p>
<p id=x058 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> As before, let's postpone this discussion as we should be careful in our approach for modelling agents as here they refer to the legal meaning and in the other place they were a technical concept. Is there a difference between Representative and Agent?</p>
<p id=x059 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> yes, they are different concepts</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> we can model these agents and state who they are acting on behalf of</p>
<p id=x061 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Okay, let's make a note to discuss for v2.2: <code>LegalAgent</code> and its relation <code>actingOnBehalfOf</code></p>
<p id=i01 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> Model <code>Agent</code> and <code>LegalAgent</code></p>
<p id=x063 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Created <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/197">issue #197</a> Model `Agent` and `LegalAgent`</p>
<h4 id=t11>VAIR outputs</h4>
<p id=x065 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> We are trying to model how the data is being used as an output? E.g. as an action, as a decision? So my worry is that the concept <code>ai:Action</code> might get mistaken to mean the action as an activity instead of being a data.</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> no, these are actions as in actions made by a robot</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> I see, so do we model these as <code>SystemInput</code> and <code>SystemOutput</code>?</p>
<p id=x068 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> maybe, but then how do we use these as an output of the model - which is different from a system?</p>
<p id=x069 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> good point, okay - so here some of these outputs may be data and <code>ai:Content</code> is always data. So we can represent content directly as output data, whereas for the other concepts we want to indicate how the outputs are being used i.e. their role. So can we remove <code>ai:Content</code> and model the rest as <code>OutputRole</code>? Delaram can make the decision of how to finalise this.</p>
<h4 id=t12>VAIR involvement</h4>
<p id=x071 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> concepts are okay - two changes where I added prefix <u>Entity</u> here to indicate these are specific to entities and added parent concept <code>EntityInvolvement</code> to have this be in that taxonomy and allow the reuse of property <code>hasEntityInvolvement</code> along with <code>hasIntentionStatus</code>.</p>
<h4 id=t13>VAIR lifecycle</h4>
<p id=x073 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> the ISO 22989 describes these stages with specific words, so added some more proposed concepts - Delaram to review and finalise. Also added concepts from ISO 15288 for software development which can be in TECH, and then we extend them for AI</p>
<h4 id=t14>VAIR documentation</h4>
<p id=x075 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> concepts are okay, though some are quite long at 48 characters <code>eu-aiact:PostMarketMonitoringSystemDocumentation</code> - any way to shorten these?</p>
<p id=x076 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> could shorten <u>Documentation</u> to <u>Doc</u> ?</p>
<p id=x077 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> doesn't read well and the AI Act uses the full phrase - so maybe lets keep it for now</p>
<h4 id=t15>VAIR purpose</h4>
<p id=x079 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> These are still WIP - what should do with these?</p>
<p id=x080 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> review them as is - I started working on these but it isn't clear how to align them with the DPV purpose taxonomy</p>
<p id=x081 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> in general, I think we want to keep the breadth of top concepts narrow and have as much depth as needed as it helps in the selection process. I will take a look at these.</p>
<h4 id=t16>Bias work</h4>
<p id=x083 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> the concepts for bias that were proposed by me and Daniel will be present in v2.1?</p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> yes, we discussed and accepted them.</p>
<p id=x085 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> there is also the work by Mayra <a href="https://github.com/tibonto/Doc-BIAS">tibonto/<wbr>Doc-BIAS</a> which we are aligning with AIRO</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> okay, so what you can do is since we are adding your concepts to DPV, you can align these concepts with DPV v2.1 and then add them in v2.2</p>
<p id=x087 class="phone s02"><cite>delaramGolpayegani:</cite> there is also an ontology on Machine Learning which we can mention for modelling more specific ML context</p>
<p id=x088 class=summary> Note: to add these references to the HTML</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t17>v2.1 release</h3>
<p id=i02 class=issue><strong>ISSUE:</strong> DPV v2.1 release management</p>
<p id=x092 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> Created <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198">issue #198</a> DPV v2.1 release management</p>
<p id=x093 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Let's use the remaining time to discuss which items we should complete in 2.1 and which ones to move in v2.2</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> so taking issues from <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>5</a> and deciding whether they will be completed in v2.1, and if not then we move them to v2.2 <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>milestone/<wbr>7</a></p>
<p id=x095 class=summary> group discussed and moved issues to v2.2 future release</p>
<p id=x096 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> For the release itself, do we think we will have this completed by DEC-17 which is likely to be our last DPVCG meeting this year?</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s05"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> there is an issue for NIS2 - so is the NIS2 extension complete?</p>
<p id=x098 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> No, the issue is only for creating the NIS2 extension, which is done, so we will add more NIS2 concepts in the next release</p>
<p id=x099 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> there is a NIS2 consultation paper recently published by ENISA (probably this - <a href="https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/asking-for-your-feedback-enisa-technical-guidance-for-the-cybersecurity-measures-of-the-nis2-implementing-act)">https://<wbr>www.enisa.europa.eu/<wbr>news/<wbr>asking-for-your-feedback-enisa-technical-guidance-for-the-cybersecurity-measures-of-the-nis2-implementing-act)</a></p>
<p id=x100 class="phone s04"><cite>georgKrog:</cite> there is also a Data Spaces webinar on NOV-22 (to be shared on mailing list)</p>
<p id=x101 class="phone s05"><cite>julianFlake:</cite> we can have a release candidate in December, and then we have a final release in January</p>
<p id=x102 class=summary> group agreed to this approach</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t18>Next Meeting</h3>
<p id=x104 class=summary> next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 19 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB. This meeting we also continue discussion and resolutions for publishing DPV 2.1 release.</p>
<p id=x105 class="phone s01"><cite>harsh:</cite> Two important topics that are relevant for DPV 2.1 and we should aim to support them. First is the AI/AI Act stuff -we went through that today and we will be able to integrate that. Second is the set of concepts required for P7012 use of DPV, which I will discuss and propose together with Beatriz.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=IssueSummary>
<h2>Summary of issues</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#i01">Model <code>Agent</code> and <code>LegalAgent</code></a></li>
<li><a href="#i02">DPV v2.1 release management</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
