14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, georgKrog, julianFlake, paulRyan, beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, julioHernandez
14:55:18 <harsh> Regrets: harshPandit
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 15 OCT 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241015T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-15
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Discrimination concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190 -> Issue 190 [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: We can use the existing discrimination law to get the concepts e.g. take from law e.g. Ireland has 8 concepts we can use https://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/employment/equality-in-work/equality-in-the-workplace/
14:55:35 <harsh> georgKrog: we should also map it to ECHR https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Convention_on_Human_Rights 
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Rights Impact concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184 -> Issue 184 Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: see if our impact categories e.g. delayed, denied make sense for each right e.g. non-discrimination and delayed doesn't make much sense ; so we provide some help to identify impacts on rights ; timeline is Nov end as the next release is planned for Dec
14:55:35 <harsh> georgKrog: will need to read up on this to understand rights impacts
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: okay, so we can start with one concept representing impact to entire right / article and then have a hierarchy under it to model more specific impacts
14:55:35 <harsh> georgKrog: looking at case law, e.g. the word used there is deterrent 
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: impact concepts in GDPR
14:55:35 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: for specific rights, also put in rights guide
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: in the previous call, the deadline mentioned as November end was based on DPV 2.1 being planned for a December release. Since we have a 6 month release cycle planned, it would be good to have some rights impacts concepts as the FRIA under AI Act is trending.
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Legal Bases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111 -> Issue 111 Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: Georg asked about power of attorney, but this is not considered in GDPR legal bases or other legal bases for consent. For contract, etc. this is also not a legal basis on its own - or I don't think we should get in to that level of detail just yet.
14:55:35 <harsh> \ group discussed validity under GDPR for consent
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: concluding this, we need to make sure that DPV is capable for expressing consent given by parent - recording the relation / role
14:55:35 <harsh> ACTION: ensure DPV can express role of parent/guardian for consent by delegation
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Updates / Mentions
14:55:35 <harsh> \ the following were discussed regarding updates
14:55:35 <harsh> \ Proposed DPIA concepts in GDPR by Tytti https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183
14:55:35 <harsh> \ Linking DPV concepts to GDPR (proposed by Prinon Das): https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186
14:55:35 <harsh> \ Guide for Machine-Actionable Rights https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191
14:55:35 <harsh> \ Alignment with ODRL https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 22 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.