16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
16:18:43 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
16:15:47 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:47 <ghurlbot> OK.
16:15:55 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <harsh> Chair: harsh
16:16:51 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, beatrizEsteves, paulRyan, delaramGolpayegani, georgKrog, julianFlake, tyttiRintamaki, iainHenderson, mayraRusso
16:17:14 <harsh> Date: 19 NOV 2024
16:17:28 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241119T133000/
16:17:37 <harsh> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <harsh> \purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-11-19
16:18:43 <harsh> Topic: P7012
16:19:28 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/203 -> Issue 203 Create extension to support IEEE P7012 (by coolharsh55) [WIP] [standards]
16:18:43 <harsh> \ discussion on how and where to support P7012
16:18:43 <harsh> iainHenderson: we need to add more data types that can go in the extension and if it makes sense then in the core / pd extensions
16:18:43 <harsh> harsh: proposed path `/dpv/standards/p7012` in github repo, then we can reuse this namespace for other standards e.g. conformance concepts for ISO standards
16:18:43 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: what about harmonised standards?
16:18:43 <harsh> harsh: I think we can put this in the EU extension to say standard X is a harmonised standard
16:18:43 <harsh> \ agreed to go ahead with P7012 extension
16:18:43 <harsh> ACTION: create p7012 extension
16:18:43 <harsh> Topic: Integrating AIRO/VAIR
16:19:28 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143 -> Issue 143 Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55) [todo] [help-wanted] [AI] [eu-aiact]
16:20:09 <harsh> \ We continued reviewing the concepts proposed to be integrated from AIRO/VAIR using this spreadsheet - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/
17:01:35 <harsh> Topic: v2.1 release
17:02:56 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/198 -> Issue 198 DPV v2.1 release management
16:18:43 <harsh> harsh: see list of tasks pending for v2.1 https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Nov/0003.html
16:18:43 <harsh> harsh: issues/tasks under v2.1 on github https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5
16:18:43 <harsh> harsh: the rest are marked for v2.2 on github https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/7
17:08:08 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
17:08:57 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 26 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB. This meeting we also continue discussion and resolutions for publishing DPV 2.1 release.