14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani, catarinaSilva, markLizar
14:55:18 <harsh> Regrets: julioHernandez, beatrizEsteves, georgKrog
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 01 OCT 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241001T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-01
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Risk Taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181 -> Issue 181 Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: (showing the new risk concepts structure)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: the concept `dpv:RiskConcept` is in the DPV as it is the parent of risk concepts in DPV e.g. `Risk`
14:55:35 <harsh> ACTION: For Risk roles, change to Risk Concepts or "Can act as" in Table
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: next steps are integrating concepts from VAIR, and having separate sections for bias, discrimination, rights impacts
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Bias concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182 -> Issue 182 Adding AI bias concepts (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> Moving ahead with these, for `ai:DataBias` the parent would be `risk:DataBias` so that we have both generic and AI specific concepts
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Rights Impact concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184 -> Issue 184 Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: Rights Impact concepts added to GDPR, EU Rights, long-term provide supporting links between impacts and rights in EU extension
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Integrating AIRO/VAIR
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: some concepts don't have a direct link e.g. EU Office and operators ; potentially have it for discussion by 22nd
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: we can also explore whether we can add the high-risk categorisations from your PhD in AI Act extension. Whether to provide these with an implementation in SHACL, N3 for rules - to be discussed, for the moment only suggest adding the 'shape' or process
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 01 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.