14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, delaramGolpayegani, catarinaSilva, tyttiRintamaki, paulRyan, beatrizEsteves
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 29 OCT 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241029T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-29
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Discrimination concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190 -> Issue 190 [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> \ accept concepts 
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Rights Impact concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184 -> Issue 184 Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: Question continued from last discussion: do we include requirements?
14:55:35 <harsh> paulRyan: +1 merit in doing this work as it also helps meeting rights requests
14:55:35 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: +1 agree with paul, it makes sense to model the whole process
14:55:35 <harsh> paulRyan: its an area where we are weak in, we have worked a lot of DPIA and other processes, but never delved into what the processes actually are
14:55:35 <harsh> tyttiRintamaki: +1
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: +1 might be helpful for fundamental rights impact assessment under the AI Act
14:55:35 <harsh> catarinaSilva: +1
14:55:35 <harsh> \ conclusion: group agreed that we should include requirements for rights and other processes in general. This requires further discussions and exploration of concepts / methodology, so we will do this for DPV 2.2.
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Guide for Machine Actionable Rights
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191 -> Issue 191 Create a guide for Machine-Actionable Rights (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> beatrizEsteves: submitted what I had for materials to DPV dev branch on github. Next steps is to create a sequence diagram for what is involved in exercising a right - what we discussed last time with Georg. It would be good for people to go over it and start a discussion on it.
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: DPIA concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183 -> Issue 183 Represent activities where DPIA is required in EU-GDPR (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> tyttiRintamaki: concepts are done - to be reviewed by harsh; will submit on Github for people to review and discuss; there are some issues that require inputs from people
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: then we put it on the agenda for next week (tytti: yes)
14:55:35 <harsh> paulRyan: there are two steps in DPIA where the first one is whether a DPIA is needed e.g. EDPB guidelines on what needs a DPIA
14:55:35 <harsh> tyttiRintamaki: yes, I have factored in all EDPB and EU/EEA DPA guidelines
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Integrating AIRO/VAIR
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143 -> Issue 143 Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: mapping of AIRO to VAIR - wording is different e.g. risk mitigation and risk control
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: we also need to check/map risk controls in DPV
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: we have measure to follow the legal meaning of mitigation measure and risk ontology/extension has the generic term control used in risk management
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: there is a concept called detectsRiskConcept as it refers to detecting events which in DPV are modelled as risk concepts (so they can take up multiple roles)
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: lets call it to detectsEvent?
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: not great due to temporal connotation of 'event'
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: lets go with what you have for the moment
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: for domains - the criticial infrastructures have been modelled as concepts
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: if we don't have domain then for some purposes e.g. determining high risk and prohibited AI or technical documentation - DPV won't be sufficient on its own
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: we use it with NACE?
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: does it have a formal representation?
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: yes, in RDF! https://data.europa.eu/data/datasets/nace2-1?locale=en
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: specific parts of AIRO/VAIR will be going in to specific extensions
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: area of impact - how to model this? As sector? Is it different?
14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: ai subject - how do we model this? It is not the same as data subject.
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: how do we reuse data subject taxonomy as we already have a nice list there?
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: option, we define human subject and move concepts there - but that will break existing uses of data and we should ensure minimising any breaking changes. Will need to think about this.
14:55:35 <harsh> 14:55:35 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: human involvement concepts are present - but not explicitly for humans only
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: these are generalised as entity involvement, but we don't have 
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 05 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.