16:15:34 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
16:15:44 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
16:18:43 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
16:15:47 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
16:15:47 <ghurlbot> OK.
16:15:55 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
16:15:57 <harsh> Chair: harsh
16:16:51 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, georgKrog, julioHernandez, julianFlake, paulRyan
16:18:43 <harsh> Regrets: beatrizEsteves, delaramGolpayegani
16:17:14 <harsh> Date: 16 JAN 2025
16:17:28 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/178d1c71-a92d-4da7-a196-6a89d0fe2277/20250116T133000/
16:17:37 <harsh> \ Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
16:17:47 <harsh> \ purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2025-01-16
16:17:47 <harsh> Topic: Scheduling Weekly Meeting
16:17:47 <harsh> \ New weekly meeting time slot: THU 13:30 WET / 14:30 CET
16:17:47 <harsh> Topic: DPV 2.1
16:17:47 <harsh> \ Discussed pending issues for v2.1 completion https://github.com/w3c/dpv/milestone/5. Ongoing work includes completing the HTML and preparing the release. We plan in the next meeting the publishing and review periods.
16:17:47 <harsh> Subtopic: Contracts
16:17:47 <harsh> harsh: Discussed contract status concepts offline with Julian and Georg, and we have agreed for modelling the status for indicating how the contract is created and executed. For this a state diagram showing what our assumptions were would be added, and the concepts about how the contract was drafted have been removed.
16:17:47 <harsh> julianFlake: the contract drafting status would apply for any document, and therefore we should think about creating `DocumentStatus` as a generic concept that would be useful beyond the contract cases. 
16:17:47 <harsh> georgKrog: agree, it would be useful for organisations
16:17:47 <harsh> paulRyan: yes, for ROPA and DPIA these type of statuses would be helpful
16:17:47 <harsh> harsh: then we will look into these for DPV v2.2; an important consideration is whether we add these to DPV or we create a management or governance or organisation extension that contains such concepts that are helpful for internal organisational management and governance concepts and processes which do not fit the scope of DPV
16:17:47 <harsh> Subtopic: EHDS
16:17:47 <harsh> harsh: We had discussed EHDS extension to support ongoing work such as the HealthDCAT-AP, and agreed that it should be in scope. Now we have a draft - should we formally indicate we are working on this?
16:17:47 <harsh> \ group agreed this work is in scope of the DPVCG and should be continued
16:17:47 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:17:47 <harsh> \ The next meeting will be on Thursday 13:30WET/14:30CET
