14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <paulRyan> Scribe: paulRyan
20:09:23 <paulRyan> ScribeNick: paulRyan
20:09:23 <paulRyan> Chair: paulRyan
14:55:03 <paulRyan> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <paulRyan> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <paulRyan> Present: paulRyan, tyttiRintamaki
14:55:18 <paulRyan> Regrets: delaramGolpayegani, beatrizEsteves, julianFlake, georgKrog, paulRyanPandit
14:55:22 <paulRyan> Date: 03 SEP 2024
14:55:26 <paulRyan> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240903T133000/
14:55:31 <paulRyan> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <paulRyan> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-09-03
14:55:18 <paulRyan> \ As there were not sufficient members at the meeting, no reviews or resolutions were conducted. 
14:55:18 <paulRyan> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <paulRyan> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 03 September at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be the same as for today's meeting, with any other additions present on Github, the mailing list, and AOB.
