14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, tyttiRintamaki, paulRyan, delaramGolpayegani, iainHenderson, georgKrog, julianFlake, markLizar
14:55:18 <harsh> Regrets: julioHernandez
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 10 SEP 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240910T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-09-10
14:55:18 <harsh> \ Noted AOB item from delaram
14:55:18 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: what is the connection between data in DPV and dataset in DCAT?
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: they are similar concepts and you can use both of them together e.g. something is an instance of `dpv:Data` and `dcat:Dataset`, but not good to combine them in terms of relationships e.g. subclass relationship as differen _datasets_ can contain same _data_, or _data_ can contain multiple _datasets_.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Legal Basis
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111 -> Issue 111 Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> Subtopic: Contract
14:55:18 <harsh> \ no comments or changes identified - accepted the concepts as discussed in previous minutes 
14:55:18 <harsh> Subtopic: Other Legal Basis
14:55:18 <harsh> \ no comments or changes identified - accepted the concepts
14:55:18 <harsh> \ For legal basis concepts, they are accepted in principle. 
14:55:18 <harsh> ACTION: Add legal basis concepts to DPV
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Rules
14:55:18 <harsh> \ concepts to model rule fulfilment as statuses, aligned with concepts from contract clause fulfilment
14:55:18 <harsh> georgKrog: `PermissionObligation` and `Obligation` in contract law are different, how to express that? For example, to express that you have permission to use a book, but if you read beyond certain pages then you have to pay?
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: that is an obligation within a permission, which can be done with DPV concepts - but we don't define the interpretation of nested rules. Also its better to look towards ODRL for this use-case as it has defined interpretations and also because it specifically models contracts.
14:55:18 <harsh> \ agreed - okay to continue with Rules concepts
14:55:18 <harsh> ACTION: Add rules concepts to DPV
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Risk Taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181 -> Issue 181 Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> \ recap: single hierarchy of concepts grouped based on different topics, adopter picks the concept and the role it plays in the use-case e.g. whether it is a consequence or an impact
14:55:18 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: this is an issue where some concepts do not make sense for a chosen role e.g. _violence against children_ as a risk source doesn't make a lot of sense. Not necessarily a blocking problem, but something to think about.
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: Indeed, but don't know another solution that will allow flexibility while also providing clarity regarding roles. The previous model had us assert something is _always_ a risk source or impact - which is not true. So in this case, we ask the adopter to choose the concept and the role.
14:55:18 <harsh> delaramGolpayegani: for specific AI related risks it is not possible to pick from this list, and we would have to have an extension or another way to distinguish these
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: this is something we discussed earlier, so yes, the consensus as I remember it as was to put the AI specific risks in the AI extension
14:55:18 <harsh> paul: are you trying to make it more flexible?
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: yes, the goal is to keep things flexible
14:55:18 <harsh> georg: can be explained in an example
14:55:18 <harsh> mark: communicate risk and liability - who is responsible for the risk
14:55:18 <harsh> delaram: this could be modelled with ODRL e.g. with the AI use profile which expresses the liability if something happens
14:55:18 <harsh> \ consensus - okay to move ahead with the risk taxonomy and to provide sufficient guidance and examples in the documentation to clarify how the concepts work. For AI specific risks, we have the AI extension.
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: of note, the Spanish DPA (AEPD) had a paper at APF where they created a threat taxonomy where they extended the LINDDUN privacy threats taxonomy with data protection relevant concepts Implications of Age Assurance on Privacy and Data Protection: A Systematic Threat Model https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68024-3_1
14:55:18 <harsh> ACTION: Continue with Risk taxonomy model, consolidate taxonomy, create risk concepts in AI extension
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Sector
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/177 -> Issue 177 [Concept]: Sectors should be defined in DPV (main spec)  (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: question is whether we should model `Sector` taxonomy in DPV or we suggest use of authoritative taxonomies such as NACE and NAICS
14:55:18 <harsh> paul: official source is important
14:55:18 <harsh> delaram: for the AI Act checked the sectors mentioned and they map quite well with NACE, wording is not the same but they are mostly covered so no need for duplicates
14:55:18 <harsh> georg: there are different regulations such as emission of carbon, digital products where ID must be declared, which all require a standardised way to document the sector in which they are active in - so the one in DPV would need too much work and shouldn't be done
14:55:18 <harsh> \ agreed with consensus - not to model sector in DPV
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Fee
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/185 -> Issue 185 [Concept]: Add Fee concept to DPV, remove it from RISK (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> paulRyan: real concepts required in GDPR where they are required, so they have sufficient granularity to do what we need to do
14:55:18 <harsh> georgKrog: yes, agreed it is useful
14:55:18 <harsh> \ accepted with consensus
14:55:18 <harsh> ACTION: Add Fee concepts to DPV
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Updates
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183 -> Issue 183 Represent activities where DPIA is required in EU-GDPR (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> tyttiRintamaki: for DPIA concepts in DPV, will have updates next week with the concepts and examples
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182 -> Issue 182 Adding AI bias concepts (by DelaramGlp)
14:55:18 <harsh> harshPandit: for the AI Bias concepts, Daniel sent an email with updates - will go through and have a proposed resolution next week.
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186 -> Issue 186 Create Mapping between GDPR and DPV (by coolharsh55)
14:55:18 <harsh> harshPandit: for the mapping of GDPR with DPV, Prinon informed that he is busy and will have updates possibly next week.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Annual Privacy Forum
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: DPV work on consent won the best paper award at APF, and was visible/presented in front of DPAs https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2024Sep/0004.html
14:55:18 <harsh> harsh: notes from APF available on website https://harshp.com/research/blog/APF-2024
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 17 September at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be updates on resolutions from today with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.