14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, delaramGolpayegani, paulRyan, georgKrog, julianFlake, beatrizEsteves, catarinaSilva, markLizar
14:55:35 <harsh> Regrets: tyttiRintamaki
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 05 NOV 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241105T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-11-05
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Integrating AIRO/VAIR
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/143 -> Issue 143 Integrate AIRO/VAIR concepts for AI and AI Act vocabulary (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <harsh> \ discussed how to integrate concepts from AIRO/VAIR using this spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DgVwEeIN9afSdBMYXmW_lnwZNAWKjhleqB512AIpf7Q/edit?gid=1304851405#gid=1304851405
14:55:35 <harsh> \ Tabs marked as 'review-' are ready to be reviewed by the group. Other topics are to be discussed.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 11 November at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be discussing AIRO/VAIR integration, selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB. This meeting we also decide on publishing DPV 2.1 release.