14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <beatriz> Scribe: beatrizEsteves
20:09:23 <beatriz> ScribeNick: beatriz
14:55:03 <beatriz> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <beatriz> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <beatriz> Present: beatrizEsteves, paulRyan, georgKrog, julioHernandez, tyttiRintamaki, markLizar, jesseWright, catarinaSilva, julianFlake
14:55:18 <beatriz> Regrets: harshPandit
14:55:22 <beatriz> Date: 08 OCT 2024
14:55:26 <beatriz> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20241008T133000/
14:55:31 <beatriz> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <beatriz> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-10-08
14:55:35 <beatriz> Topic: Discrimination concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/190 -> Issue 190 [Concept]: Discrimination Concepts in RISK (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> \ No comments
14:55:35 <beatriz> Topic: Rights Impact concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/184 -> Issue 184 Add Rights Impact concepts for each Right (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> georgKrog: different types of rights might imply different concepts, but the currently defined ones are generic enough to be useful in different scenarios
14:55:35 <beatriz> tyttiRintamaki: useful for impact assessments
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: should we have jurisdiction specific concepts, e.g., `eu-gdpr:RightUnfulfilled`?
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: who would like to participate to create specific impact concepts from EU fundamental rights and GDPR rights? Timeline is November end.
14:55:35 <beatriz> \ No comments. What is this deadline?
14:55:35 <beatriz> Topic: Risk Taxonomy
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/181 -> Issue 181 Refine RISK taxonomy into a single consistent hierarchy (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> \ no comments
14:55:35 <beatriz> Topic: Bias concepts
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/182 -> Issue 182 Adding AI bias concepts (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> \ no comments
14:55:35 <beatriz> Topic: Legal Bases
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/111 -> Issue 111 Model information about legal bases (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> georgKrog: Georg: power of attorney is missing; how to delegate control to someone else to consent/enter into a contract/complain, etc.
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: Any updates on the followig?
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: Proposed DPIA concepts in GDPR by Tytti https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/183
14:55:35 <beatriz> tyttiRintamaki: Under review by Harsh, will be shared next week.
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: Linking DPV concepts to GDPR (proposed by Prinon Das): https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/186
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: how to tie concepts with their legal provision, e.g., use a certain justification in the context of GDPR Article X
14:55:35 <beatriz> paulRyan: how are we starting? from DPV to GDPR or GDPR to DPV?
14:55:35 <beatriz> georgKrog: instead of doing complete mapping focus on use cases, e.g., ROPAs, notices, rights
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: Guide for Machine-Actionable Rights https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/191 (Beatriz)
14:55:35 <beatriz> georgKrog: would be nice to have tools to go from machine-readable to human-readable to assist data controllers
14:55:35 <beatriz> ACTION: beatriz to move contents in https://besteves4.github.io/dpv-rights-exercising/ to DPV’s GH repo.
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Alignment with ODRL
20:10:04 <ghurlbot> https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/130 -> Issue 130 Alignment with ODRL (by coolharsh55)
14:55:35 <beatriz> beatriz: no time to discuss the topic in this month’s ODRL meeting. Already on the agenda for the next meeting at the beginning of November.
14:55:35 <beatriz> ACTION: beatriz to start the ODRL mapping document.
14:55:18 <beatriz> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <beatriz> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 15 October at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.