14:54:20 <RRSAgent> RRSAgent has joined #dpvcg
20:09:03 <harsh> Scribe: harshPandit
20:09:23 <harsh> ScribeNick: harsh
14:55:03 <harsh> repo: w3c/dpv
14:55:13 <harsh> Meeting: DPVCG Meeting Call
14:55:18 <harsh> Present: harshPandit, paulRyan, georgKrog, danielDoherty, julianFlake
14:55:18 <harsh> Regrets: delaramGolpayegani, tyttiRintamaki
14:55:22 <harsh> Date: 17 SEP 2024
14:55:26 <harsh> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/0e21485e-d959-4f78-930a-bd66650adace/20240917T133000/
14:55:31 <harsh> Meeting minutes: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings
14:55:35 <harsh> purl for this meeting: https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2024-09-17
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: Approving concepts
14:55:35 <harsh> \ no further comments or issues identified with concepts accepted in the last meeting (Legal bases - types and statuses, rule fulfillment status, fees). 
14:55:35 <harsh> georgKrog: certain contract clauses are needed in specific contracts - this should be modelled in DPV. E.g. data sharing agreements will have clauses of a type.
14:55:35 <harsh> typically we do application specific stuff in extensions e.g. if this was for GDPR, then we do this in the GDPR extension. If this is generally useful for lots of jurisdictions or for a large number of use-cases then we can do this in a new extension e.g. _organisation_ or _management_
14:55:35 <harsh> Topic: ISO 27569
14:55:35 <harsh> harsh: with Jan Lindquist, we submitted a proposal for a new ISO standard for records of personal data processing based on the 27560 work, but extended for all legal bases. The DPV work we have done here was the input for this work.
14:55:18 <harsh> Topic: Next Meeting
16:03:29 <harsh> \ next meeting will be in 1 week on TUESDAY 24 September at 13:30 WEST / 14:40 CEST. Agenda will be selecting the next set of items/issues on GitHub with any updates on github/mailing list and AOB.